fora tv' the world is thinking doyle
mentioned different images of marriage
and we do have a different image of
marriage as I said we value marriage
highly you may say but people don't
marry as much as they used to and they
get divorced more that's very true but
we still marry more than other countries
and even among people in this country
with the lowest marriage rates such as
the poor you find that marriage is very
highly valued but it's valued in a
different way than in the past it's
valued almost as a status symbol as a
marker of making it as a way to show
people that you got a successful life
that's why we see this seemingly
contradictory result well where although
there's no reason for big weddings
anymore everybody still wants one in
fact studies show that a lot of couples
who don't have a lot of money will say
look I'm just not going downtown to the
justice of the peace or this marriage
okay if we're not going to have a big
wedding I will wait until we can what
and we find that while marriage used to
be paid for by the parents it's often
now paid for by the couple themselves
and what's that all about that's showing
friends and family that you've been able
to do what you need to do to get married
it used to be in the 1950s that marriage
was the first step into adulthood now
it's often the last it's the thing you
do now after you do much of the stuff
you did in the 50s once you got married
you finish school you get a job you buy
a car you get an apartment you figure
yourself stable you have kids all those
things are now sometimes done before you
get married and if that's all done well
and you feel in pretty good shape and
you can afford a church wedding and
reception afterwards then you go for it
okay that's what contemporary marriage
is it's almost like a status symbol it's
almost like the last merit badge you
earn before you're an Eagle Scout it's
the marriage badge you get to wear it on
your shoulder which is both good and
troubling it's good because people still
have a positive image of the institution
it's
because sometimes I think people don't
spend a lot of time thinking about what
happens the day after the reception that
the ideal is the wedding the ideal is
making it and there's not much of an eye
of a conception of how to live a married
life afterwards I think that's one
reason why marriages are so vulnerable
to breaking up